Spare a thought for 19-year-old Larry.
>> Larry, the Downing Street cat, [music]
has outlasted David Cameron, Theresa
May, Boris Johnson, Liz Truss, Rishi
Sunak,
>> [music]
>> and maybe now even Keir Starmer.
>> The knives are now well and truly out.
[clears throat]
>> Dozens of MPs call for the UK Prime
Minister to get ready to step down.
>> And this [music] is what's got people
asking, what on earth is going on in the
UK?
>> If you speak to any of the last few
Prime Ministers, [music]
they might tell you that Britain is
ungovernable.
>> Well, except the current one.
>> No, I don't think Britain is
ungovernable.
>> The rhetoric stems from a reality that
over 7 years, Britain has churned
through five Prime Ministers, while lack
of growth and a cost of living crisis
have stubbornly stayed put.
>> Voters and other politicians are so
impatient to see change and improvement
that the immediate [music]
thought goes to, well, let's change the
Prime Minister.
>> Are you going to stand for leader?
>> And would-be successors are lining up
again. But voters may be overlooking
another permanent presence in British
politics, less furry than Larry, and
much less forgiving.
>> Just seeing the bond vigilantes waving
their pitchforks and coming out for
blood.
>> Wow, gilts are really [music] exciting.
>> Oh, they are. And here's the proof.
Britain saw the yield on 30-year
government bonds, known as gilts, hit
new highs in May.
>> Although this is primarily a [music]
political battle, there's no getting
away from the fact that the bond market
looms large over the whole drama.
>> So, this is a story of how Britain's
political crisis collided [music] with
economic reality. What that means for
Keir Starmer, the country, and number
10's longest-serving resident.
How quickly everything can change.
>> 14 years of Conservative Party rule has
come to an end.
>> It was a landslide victory for Labour
back in 2024. [music]
>> A huge opportunity for the left of
British politics to govern [music]
for the first time since Tony Blair and
Gordon Brown.
>> Less than two years later, the landslide
looks more like a sinkhole.
>> The UK has just wrapped a pivotal vote
that could put Prime Minister Keir
Starmer's party [music] and his job at
risk.
>> The local election results in May were
dire [music] for Starmer's Labour party,
losing seats left, right, and center,
literally.
The right-wing threat from Reform UK led
by Nigel Farage, the left-wing threat
[music] from the Greens led by Zack
Polanski, Labour turning on itself,
blaming the leader for not [music] being
able to connect with voters.
>> Keir Starmer hasn't even had two years
in the job, and people have already
decided they've had enough of him.
>> So, what went wrong?
The first thing to remember is that
Starmer wasn't exactly elected on a
groundswell of public opinion in his
favor.
>> It was really a sort of negative vote
against the [music] Conservatives after
years and years of chaos, really, that
brought Brexit, Boris Johnson, [music]
Liz Truss, roiling markets.
People had had enough of the Tories and
wanted [music] a change, and that was
the pretty much one-word slogan of Keir
Starmer's election campaign.
>> Then came the fiscal reality check.
Within days of taking office, his
Chancellor, Rachel Reeves, said public
[music] finances were far worse than
feared.
>> And she came out with a very
controversial cut for [music]
pensioners, which caused a
battering for the Labour party in the
[music] opinion polls, for which they've
never really recovered.
>> Next came 40 billion pounds of tax rises
focused on businesses.
It prompted critics to argue Labour had
put its growth pledge at risk in a way
that would ultimately impact jobs, and
it did.
Unemployment has risen since Starmer
took office.
Both payrolls and the number of vacant
jobs have decreased, and businesses have
pointed to higher employment costs as a
reason.
>> The other events preceding those local
elections that weaken Starmer have been
the revelations around the Peter
Mandelson ambassador to Washington and
his dealings with the [music] disgraced
financier Jeffrey Epstein.
>> Bloomberg News investigation revealed in
2025 [music]
that Peter Mandelson's relationship with
Jeffrey Epstein was far deeper than
anyone had previously [music] known.
Starmer sacked Mandelson off the back of
that story.
>> I should not have appointed Peter
Mandelson, and I apologize again to the
victims of the pedophile Jeffrey
Epstein, who were clearly failed by my
decision.
>> Behind the very visible Westminster
drama sat a harder problem, rising
welfare costs, weak productivity, and
precious little spare cash.
>> The UK has been a low-growth economy
[music] for some time now and really has
struggled to get itself out of
>> [music]
>> the situation since the global financial
crisis.
>> In that time, there was this, then
COVID, Ukraine, the energy shock, that
infamous Liz Truss mini-budget, and now
the war in Iran.
>> It's left Keir Starmer [music] facing
really almost insurmountable challenges.
>> Chief amongst them, this.
The cost of long-term UK government
borrowing had been falling.
Now, it's [music] risen to the highest
level since 1998.
So, why is that so consequential for
ordinary people?
>> So, if the [music] consumers arise in
government borrowing cost matters
because if the government's spending
more on servicing its debt [music] and
paying its interest cost, that's less
money that the government can be
spending on things like investment and
boosting growth.
>> And some analysts are now pricing in the
chance that Starmer is replaced by
someone more willing to borrow [music]
into already expensive markets.
>> There is a high demand for [music]
spending given the geopolitical
situation, a requirement for higher
defense spending, and yet taxes at
levels not seen since [music] the Second
World War.
>> It's been a tricky couple of months for
government bonds globally. That's been
the case since the [music] outbreak of
war in the Middle East. That's fueling
new fears over another inflationary
wave, and that's seen government bonds
from all over the world [music] to sell
off sharply.
>> You see Japanese yields to the highest
level since '97 on some maturities, in
the UK since '98, German yields 2011 on
some maturities again. The US the
highest close so far this year.
>> A worldwide issue then, but one being
felt acutely in Britain.
These are 30-year yields for each of the
G7 nations since January.
They're all elevated, but it's only when
you add the UK that you begin to see the
increasingly costly premium that
investors are demanding to lend it what
it needs.
>> Global bond yields are higher as a
reaction [music] to higher expected
inflation because of higher energy
prices, but then layer on top of that
the political uncertainty.
All of that making UK government debt
[music]
less attractive to international
investors.
>> And Britain comes into this having
borrowed a lot already.
>> The UK debt, if calculated relative to
economic output, is above 90%, which is
pretty bad. The more debt you have, the
more vulnerable you are to rising
interest rates because that makes it
more expensive [music] to issue and to
service your debt.
>> More spent on interest means less left
for anything else.
In the most recent fiscal year, the
government spent about 100 billion
pounds on interest alone. That's pretty
close to the UK's entire annual
education budget. And this is exactly
what people wanted to see change, more
money for crumbling institutions. But it
gets worse.
>> The UK has a chronic inflation problem.
>> Prior to the war in Iran, the Bank of
England had forecast inflation to do
this.
Yes, hit a 2% target for 2026.
That made interest rate cuts look
possible and could have eased borrowing
costs over time for people and
government alike.
But in March, it was revised upwards.
>> Middle East war, oil prices have been
higher. Inflation is higher in the UK as
an importer of energy.
>> To be fair, the economy has grown on
Starmer's watch.
But after inflation, wage gains have
dropped. So for many households, growth
still feels theoretical.
>> All of that pressure on gilts feeds into
the Westminster bubble that we seem to
be seeing with repeated prime ministers.
Though I would [music] point out, this
is somewhat different. For Starmer, the
bond market seems [music] to be
defending him.
>> The bond market really wants Keir
Starmer and his Chancellor of the
Exchequer, Rachel Reeves, to stay. This
market [music] thinks that they are uh
the fiscally disciplined politicians.
They've sort of set out these fiscal
rules and reiterated [music] time and
time again that they are going to abide
by them.
>> Whoever leads Labour will command a
majority in Parliament, but only do so
until the next general election,
expected in 2029. And inside the party,
attention is already turning to one man.
>> The key person over the coming weeks and
[music] months, and potentially years,
in the Labour Party is Andy Burnham.
>> He's decided to leave his job as Mayor
of Manchester to stand for a
parliamentary seat in Westminster, from
where he's expected to challenge Starmer
for the top job. [music]
And he has a very different view on how
to solve Britain's fiscal deadlock.
>> He said that Westminster shouldn't be in
hock [music]
to the bond market.
>> That really spooked investors because it
suggested that he wouldn't really care
if bond markets sold off. He He would
just sort of plow ahead with big
spending [music] plans, which even
though he's tried to walk those comments
back, is something that the bond
vigilantes will have a hard time
forgetting.
>> The rules are there for a very important
purpose, to [music] give confidence to
investors the rules will stay in any in
any context.
>> The best case scenario for Labour is
[music] that voters take to Andy Burnham
and that he has policies that are bold
enough to make a difference for the
country. The difficulty is [music]
a lot of these economic problems
particularly are structural and immense
and very difficult to change [music] in
a short period of time. And also, the
next Prime Minister will be operating,
let's face it, in the world of President
Trump [music]
where there is constant international
instability and there's really very
little any Prime Minister can do about
that.
>> So, whoever walks through that black
door next will discover the same thing.
Changing the PM doesn't reset Britain's
problems.
And perhaps that the only truly safe
route to securing a long-term occupancy
of this place is to be a [music] cat.
>> [music]